- [Instructor] Hi and welcome back.
In this video we're
looking at dictionaries.
A dictionary is another type of data
just like the list, tuple, and set.
We're at the time.
Remember sets?
We had something that looked like this.
And a set is a collection of
unordered, unique elements.
But these elements are on their own.
It would be nice, and
indeed Python has this,
which is what a dictionary is,
if we could have keys and values.
For example, if we could do something like
my_dict = , for example.
And age 90.
These two things here
are unique and unordered,
but they're not on their own anymore.
So now they are separated by a colon
and there is a relationship
between the key and the value.
Now keys and values
don't have to be strings.
Indeed, this value here
is 90, which is a number,
but the key can also
be a number if we want.
For example, this is another dictionary.
This might be useful, for
example, for a sequence
where the first number
is 15, the second is 75,
the third is 150.
Maybe interesting in some scenarios.
But this dictionary there,
now that's the really interesting one.
Because we can store data.
Now we've got name and age,
but we can also have other things.
Like grades, which should
be a string in this case.
And then we can have a
list of grades, and so on.
So a dictionary is a key value set
which allows us to store data
or to just store keys and values,
depending on what we need them for.
Let's look at a couple of examples.
For example, a lottery player.
And we can have name
being something like Rolf
and numbers being a tuple in this case.
Something like that.
So this could be a dictionary
and this dictionary describes
a specific lottery player.
Rolf is the name and
he's got these numbers.
Another example could be,
for example, universities.
And this could be a list of dictionaries.
Something like that.
And then US, these things should be...
Strings of course.
So here is an example where we've got
a list of dictionaries.
Here's an example where we've got
a list within a dictionary.
Here's an example we've got
a tuple within a dictionary.
So as you can see, we're
not constrained in any way.
We can put tuples as
the value for any key.
We can put lists as the value for any key.
As far as Python's concerned,
we can put anything that we want.
And anything we want as the value.
So we can have something
like another_dict_in_dict,
and this can be something like...
Key can be another dictionary,
for example, which has...
Something like that.
So we can have dictionaries
within dictionaries,
we can have lists in dictionaries,
tuples in dictionaries.
We're not constrained at all.
And dictionaries is usually
used to represent things.
For example, this dictionary's
not a very good example,
but this one here, we've got a dictionary
representing a specific university,
and then we've got another
dictionary representing university.
Here we've got a dictionary
representing a lottery player.
And these are all really useful.
For example, we could
calculate the total numbers
of our lottery player by doing
sum(lottery_player['numbers']).
And this now is going to add together
the numbers of this
lottery player variable,
which is a dictionary.
Do notice that there's a small difference.
With a set we couldn't
access element number zero,
but with a dictionary, we
can access a specific key.
And in this case, we're
accessing the key numbers.
Then the same way with
square brackets around it.
So lottery_player,
square bracket, numbers,
and then closing the square bracket,
gives us the value assigned to that key.
So it would give us this tuple here.
Okay.
So hopefully that makes sense.
And we can also do other
things with dictionaries.
Like for example lottery_player['name'].
We can change that to
be John, for example.
Then we can change this dictionary here.
Obviously
lottery_player['numbers'][0] = 50,
this we cannot do because
lottery_player['numbers']
is a tuple and tuples are
immutable, as we know.
So the same rules as always still apply
but now we've got another
tool in our tool set
which is the dictionary,
which allows us to have
key and value pairs.
In the next video we're going to introduce
some concept that is
then going to translate
into object-oriented programming.
But wait until the next video.
Then we're gonna cover this small concept,
and then in a following one,
we'll go into object-oriented programming.
I'm very excited to continue
this course with you
so I'll see you in the very next video.